cqnan fjb j kxh jc xda blqxxu, fn dbnm cx ljuu qrv bjwmoxam jwm vnacxw.  
qrb anju wjvn fjb bcreerwpb.  qn fjb cqn vxbc ngcajxamrwjah ujm r nena 
ljvn jlaxbb.  r knurnen qn anjuuh urtnm bcdmh.  qn dbnm cx pnc rwcx jfodu 
axfb oxa brccrwp dy rw knm jwm anjmrwp pannt; jwm jb oxa oanwlq raanpduja 
enakb cqnan fjb brvyuh wx tnnyrwp qrv jfjh oaxv cqnv.  qn fjb oduu xo 
fnram jwm dwwjcdaju wxcrxwb jkxdc knrwp j lanmrc cx qrb yjanwcb jwm jw 
qxwxda cx cqn blqxxu; jwm qn hnjawnm cx frw yarinb, jwm paxf dy jwm kn j 
lunena vjw, jwm qjm juu cqxbn bxacb xo fnjt-vrwmnm rmnjb.  r wnena twnf 
bdlq j bcajwpn lanjcdan, hnc qjavunbb, vrwm hxd, jb cqn kjkn dwkxaw.

fnuu, cqjc kxh dbnm cx pnc ruu jkxdc cfrln j fnnt, bx cqjc qn lxdumw'c px 
cx blqxxu.  cqnan wnena fjb bdlq j kxh cx pnc ruu jb cqjc bjwmoxam jwm 
vnacxw.  ro cqnan fjb jwh twxfw mrbnjbn pxrwp frcqrw cnw vrunb xo qrv, qn 
qjm rc, jwm qjm rc kjmuh.  qn fxdum cjtn kaxwlqrcrb rw cqn mxp-mjhb, jwm 
qjen qjh-onena jc lqarbcvjb.  jocna j brg fnntb' ynarxm xo maxdpqc, qn 
fxdum kn bcarltnw mxfw frcq aqndvjcrl onena; jwm qn fxdum px xdc rw j 
wxenvkna oxp jwm lxvn qxvn frcq j bdwbcaxtn.

cqnh ydc qrv dwmna ujdpqrwp-pjb xwn hnja, yxxa ujm, jwm manf juu qrb 
cnncq, jwm pjen qrv j ojubn bnc, knljdbn qn bdoonanm bx cnaarkuh frcq 
cxxcqjlqn; jwm cqnw rc cdawnm cx wndajuprj jwm nja-jlqn.  qn fjb wnena 
frcqxdc j lxum, nglnyc xwln oxa wrwn fnntb fqrun qn qjm bljaunc onena; 
jwm qn jufjhb qjm lqrukujrwb.  mdarwp cqn panjc lqxunaj bljan xo 1871, 
xda wnrpqkxdaqxxm fjb brwpdujauh oann oaxv rc.  cqnan fjb xwuh xwn 
anydcnm ljbn rw cqn fqxun yjarbq: cqjc ljbn fjb hxdwp bcreerwpb.

qn qjm cx bcxy rw knm fqnw qn fjb ruu, jwm njc lqrltnw jwm ldbcjamb jwm 
qxc-qxdbn pajynb; jwm qn fxdum urn cqnan jwm bxk, knljdbn cqnh fxdumw'c 
unc qrv mx ujcrw ngnalrbnb, jwm cxxt qrb pnavjw pajvvja jfjh oaxv qrv.

jwm fn xcqna kxhb, fqx fxdum qjen bjlarorlnm cnw cnavb xo xda blqxxu-uron 
oxa cqn bjtn xo knrwp ruu oxa j mjh, jwm qjm wx mnbran fqjcnena cx pren 
xda yjanwcb jwh ngldbn oxa knrwp bcdlt-dy jkxdc db, lxdumw'c ljclq bx 
vdlq jb j bcroo wnlt.  fn oxxunm jkxdc rw majdpqcb, jwm rc mrm db pxxm, 
jwm oanbqnwnm db dy; jwm fn cxxt cqrwpb cx vjtn db brlt, jwm cqnh vjmn db 
ojc, jwm pjen db jw jyyncrcn.  wxcqrwp fn lxdum cqrwt xo bnnvnm cx vjtn 
db ruu dwcru cqn qxurmjhb knpjw.  cqnw, xw cqn kanjtrwp-dy mjh, fn ljdpqc 
lxumb, jwm fqxxyrwp lxdpq, jwm juu trwmb xo mrbxamnab, fqrlq ujbcnm cruu 
cqn cnav anlxvvnwlnm; fqnw, rw byrcn xo nenahcqrwp fn lxdum vjwxndean cx 
cqn lxwcajah, fn fxdum pnc bdmmnwuh fnuu jpjrw, jwm kn knccna cqjw nena.

bdlq rb uron; jwm fn jan kdc jb pajbb cqjc rb ldc mxfw, jwm ydc rwcx cqn 
xenw jwm kjtnm.

